NOTE: This is a (very) beta VOGLE version 2.

Main new features are:
	Multiple window support. You can now have multiple windows open
	on multiple devices. That is, each window is has it's own private
	data structure and drivers.

	Deprecation of vinit, vnewdev, pushdev, popdev, and vexit
	(replaced by winopen, windel, winset)
		but vinit and vexit still work. Haven't looked at pushdev
		and popdev.
	A very primitive event handling scheme (for resize/redraw of windows.
	ANSI C.
	3D picking. (Might be a bit hard to use).
	Improved error handling. You can have your own error handler, and
	you can stop vogle from crapping out on errors.

	New text features (slant, boldness).
	Numerous bug fixes, and new bugs added.

	pushpos/poppos (saves the current graphics position on a stack.

Main things missing are:
	No PC drivers yet. In fact, the only drivers that work
	are X11, ps, ppm and hpdxy.

	The f77/pc interfaces need updating.

	The docs seriously need to be updated. We have a person who will
	make HTML docs one day, but he has other things that *have* to
	be done.

-----------------------


The directories in this directory contain the source for the VOGLE library.

They are as follows:

	docs		contains the documentation such as there is.

	drivers		contains the source to a variety of device drivers,
			currently restricted to: postscript, sun workstation, 
			apollo workstations, X11 (R4 & R5), tektronix 
			(401x), hpgl, dxy, and the ibm pc cards: hercules mono,
			cga, ega, vga and sigma, MS-windows and HP graphics
			terminals..

	examples	contains some C and FORTRAN programs useful both in
			testing and (hopefully) learning how to use it.

	hershey		contains the source for generating fonts and the
			hershey data for the occidental and oriental character
			sets.

	src		contains the source for the C VOGLE interface, and the 
			source for the FORTRAN and PASCAL interfaces where 
			available.
			
VOGLE is a device portable graphics library that is loosely based on the
Silicon Graphics Iris GL.  It was also inspired partly by the DIGS library 
developed at the U.S. Naval Academy under the guidance of Prof David Rogers.

As we will be continuing development on VOGLE we will gratefully accept any
bug fixes or enhancements such as new drivers, etc... People here mainly use it
to move engineering type software between IBM PCs and Sun workstations but we
expect not only our equipment, but our requirements to change, so if you find
it usefull for anything in particular we wouldn't mind hearing from you as
well.

VOGLE has been used by others as the basis of several Silicon Graphics GL
compatible libraries. The authors of VOGLE have also produced a GL compatible
library called VOGL (Very Ordinary GL). This library should be available at
the same site that you obtained VOGLE.

This software is public domain and may be used for any purpose commercial or
otherwise. It is offered without any guarantee as to its suitability for any
purpose or as to the sanity of its writers. We do ask that the source is
passed on to anyone that requests a copy, and that people who get copies don't
go round claiming they wrote it.

Although VOGLE is public domain we will drink any quantity of Beer you send to
us.

Regards,

	Eric H. Echidna

Email:
	echidna@ecr.mu.oz.au

	New Vogle mailing list: vogle@ecr.mu.oz.au
	    (vogle-request@ecr.mu.oz.au to get placed on the list).

Snail mail correspondance and alcoholic beverages should be directed to:

	The Software Support Programmer
	Department Of Engineering Computer Resources
	Faculty Of Engineering
	University Of Melbourne Vic 3052
	Australia
